CI Docs Expansion (#1112)
earthly/earthly: docs/ci-integration/ci-integration.md

# Earthly in CI

> Continuous Integration systems are as varied as the companies that use them. Fortunately, Earthly is flexible enough to fit into any of them.

Reviewer: I worry that this sounds a little too sales-like, and over-promises by using the word `any`. e.g. will earthly still work if the CI system doesn't permit running under privileged mode?

Author: What would you use for an introduction?

Reviewer: Maybe something like this, which sets up the next section which discusses dependencies/requirements?

```suggestion
Continuous Integration systems are as varied as the companies that use them; however, Earthly aims to fit into any of them wherever possible.
```

Author: So I took a whack at removing some of this sales-ification. I don't think we are overpromising with this new language, but we do need an air of confidence here...

## Getting Started

### Dependencies

Earthly has two software dependencies: `docker` and `git`. 

>  `docker` is used to glean information about the containerization environment, and manage our `earthly-buildkitd` daemon. It is also used to do things like save images locally on your machine after they have been built by Earthly.

Author: We don't have to but it certainly makes it easier to install and configure `earthly`.

#### Linux

To install `git`, you can typically use your distributions package manager. [This page](https://git-scm.com/download/linux) has installation instructions for most distributions.

To install `docker`, use the most recent versions [directly from Docker](https://docs.docker.com/engine/install/#server). The versions packaged for many distributions tend to fall behind.

#### macOS

To install `git`, the easiest way is to install the "XCode Command Line Tools". If you open up `Terminal`, and type:

```go
git --version
```

Then macOS will prompt you to install these tools. You can also use the `git` provided installer or Homebrew, if you prefer. [Details can be found here](https://git-scm.com/download/mac).

To install `docker`, [download and install Docker CE](https://hub.docker.com/editions/community/docker-ce-desktop-mac). Be sure to grab the correct installer depending on your CPU architecture.

#### Windows

To install `git`, use the  [MSI installer](https://gitforwindows.org/). This will provide `git`, and a Bash shell; which may prove more natural for using Earthly. You may also use your package manager of choice.

> To install `docker`, [download and install Docker CE](https://hub.docker.com/editions/community/docker-ce-desktop-windows). Both the HyperV and WSL2 backends are supported, but the WSL2 one is very likely to be faster.

Reviewer 2: I don't know if we should even include mac and windows CIs. Since Earthly only works with Linux containers, it would only make sense to use Earthly on a Linux-based CI.

Author: We ship a Mac and Windows build, and people might be using those in their CI. The fact that we only work with Linux containers shouldn't stop people from using the Windows or Mac runners IMO

### Installation

Once you have ensured that the dependencies are available, you'll need to install `earthly` itself.

> #### Bare Metal

Reviewer 2: CIs call this "Machine" or "Machine Runners". This should be more suggestive because many sandboxed CIs aren't actually bare metal, but rather in VMs managed by the vendor.

Author: I have never seen that terminology. I'll see what I can do to generify this more.

> This is the simplest method for adding `earthly` to your CI. It will work best on dedicated computers, or in scripted/auto-provisioned build environments. You can follow our [regular installation guide](https://earthly.dev/get-earthly) to add `earthly` if desired.

Reviewer 2: We shouldn't link the regular "Get Earthly" page here, because that one instructs the user to download the latest version of Earthly - whereas for CI we've been recommending to pin the version of Earthly to something specific.

Given that we only support Linux, I would just provide the installation one-liner here:

```
sudo /bin/sh -c 'wget https://github.com/earthly/earthly/releases/download/v0.5.18/earthly-linux-amd64 -O /usr/local/bin/earthly && chmod +x /usr/local/bin/earthly'
```

Reviewer 2: Should we also run bootstrap in CI installation? We don't include this part today.

Author: Would rather not duplicate the installation insructions, but to pin it we would need to. :thinking: Trying to limit version number sprawl within our docs.

Good point. I'll mention bootstrap here; I was leveraging the install page to run it for me. Our other docs that detail it do have you running it.

Author: > Given that we only support Linux

We support Mac, Windows (experimental), and Linux right? Why prevent people from using the build hosts they have?

> If you are going to mostly be working from a WSL2 prompt in Windows, you might want to consider following the Linux instructions for installation. This will help prevent any cross-subsystem file transfers and keep your builds fast. Note that the "original" WSL is unsupported.

Reviewer 2: I would remove this WSL remark, since we wouldn't expect our users to run a CI in WSL2.

Author: Ill move it to our alt-installation guide.

> If your build host is persistent, it is recommended to install `earthly` as part of the new host's configuration, and not as part of your build. This will speed up your builds, since you do not need to download `earthly` each time; and it will also provide stability in case a future version of `earthly` changes the behavior of a command.

Reviewer 2: I would add an example of what is a persistent build host vs what is not.

Author: I am not sure what kind of example you want here? Does this work?

> If your host is persistent *(a VM, physical box, or something that lives longer than a single build)*

#### Containers

Earthly currently offers two official images:

> - [`earthly/earthly`](https://hub.docker.com/r/earthly/earthly), which is a 1-stop shop. It includes a built-in `earthly-buildkitd` daemon, and accepts a target to be built as a parameter. It requires a mount for your source code, and an accessible `DOCKER_HOST`. When building a runner image for your CI; it is usually easier to start from this image, and add the pieces you need. See [this Jenkins agent configuration](https://github.com/earthly/ci-examples/blob/ce20840cffd2a8b04a8bd5dce477751adac3f490/jenkins/Earthfile#L48-L54) for an example.

Reviewer 2: > it is usually easier to start from this image, and add the pieces you need

Wondering if our suggestions should default to the assumption that nothing more is needed other than that image itself -- i.e. you don't need to extend the image, it already contains everything it needs. If you need more stuff, just download it via Earthly itself, not by expanding Earthly's image.

WDYT?

Author: Its hard to make that assumption; it only holds if the runner is invoking our container directly (Like GHA, Argo, other container-orchestrating CIs). If the CI wants to run a container as a runner, it falls apart (TeamCity, Jenkins... the older breeds).

Author: I hear you, but the alternative (right now) is also... less than ideal. They would need to either:

    Provide a live docker daemon (DinD or mounted from elsewhere) to allow earthly to run buildkitd, with privileged mode
    A remote buildkitd instance (experimental)

We could also solve this by moving buildkitd out of a container; but that would be Linux only, and create two ways of doing things. If we did allow that, perhaps an install script to set it up and configure it within someone elses container would be in order? But were going off on a tangent; we don't have that right now. Nor am I sure that its the right thing to do.

Admittedly, our image tag pickings are thin, and purposefully so right now. I didn't want to bless too many image tags & configurations without users needing them. Wanted to gather feedback and see what part was most important to push on next.

I think that building off of ours is the easiest approach given the current lay of the land. Hopefully, the remote buildkitd (and maybe? a buildkitd installer?) can eventually clean this up and adding earthly to a container is just as easy as a wget...

Reviewer 3: Makes sense. Maybe we can share a link to the dockerfile, and they can crib off it if they can't use it themselves.

Author: I think I cleaned this up some? Let me know.

- [`earthly/buildkitd`](https://hub.docker.com/r/earthly/buildkitd), which is the same `earthly-buildkitd` container that `earthly` will run on your host. This is useful in more advanced configurations, such as sharing a single `buildkitd` machine across many workers, or isolating the privileged parts of builds. See [this Kubernetes configuration](https://github.com/earthly/ci-examples/blob/main/kubernetes/buildkit.yaml) for an example.

If you need to provide additional configuration, [consider building your own image for CI](building-an-image.md).

### Configuration

While `earthly` is fairly configurable by itself, it also depends on the configuration of its dependencies. In a CI environment, you will need to ensure all of them are configured correctly.

#### Git

> If you plan to build any private, or otherwise secure repositories, `git` will need to be configured to have access to these repositories. Please see the [`git` documentation for how to configure access](https://git-scm.com/docs/gitcredentials).

Reviewer 2: We also have an auth page of our own that might be a better link for this paragraph.

#### Docker

> Like `git`, `docker` also needs to be configured to have access to any private repositories referenced in the `Earthfiles` you want to build. Please see [`docker`'s documentation for how to log in](https://docs.docker.com/engine/reference/commandline/login/), and our examples for pushing to many popular repositories.

Reviewer 2: Wondering if this should also link to our auth guide?

If `earthly` is running on a dedicated host, the only consideration to take is the ability to run the container in a `--privileged` mode. Typical installations *should* support this out of the box. We also support running under user namespaces, [when `earthly` is configured to start the `earthly-buildkit` container with the `--userns host` option](../earthly-config/earthly-config.md#buildkit_additional_args). Rootless configurations are currently unsupported.

If `earthly` is connecting to a remote `earthly-buildkitd`, then you will need to take additional steps. See this article for [running a remote buildkit instance](guides/remote-buildkit.md).

### Examples

Below are links to CI systems that we have produced more specific guides for. If you run into anything in your CI that wasn't covered here, we would love to add it to our documentation. Pull requests are welcome!

 * [Jenkins](guides/jenkins.md)
 * [Kubernetes](guides/kubernetes.md)
 * [Circle CI](guides/circle-integration.md)
 * [AWS CodeBuild](guides/codebuild-integration.md)

>  * [GitHub Actions](guides/gh-actions-integration.md)

Reviewer 2: I feel that the structure of the previous version of this page was better because it had Step 1, step 2, step 3 etc. Wondering if this new version could be adapted to still have that structure. It makes it feel more like a finite process, rather than a possibly endless rabbit hole.

Author: As I have plugged it into more and more CIs, its not quite a step-by-step process. Each one requires some kind of bespoke work as I have branched out... the intent was to have guides per CI; rather than a set of global steps that likely miss something.

Author: I added more structure, and I think its a nice flow, particularly with the simplification. We lead by laying out phases, the guide follows it... but it doesn't fel forced or overly-simplistic, IMO.
